team_name: hybrid
model_name: hybrid
model_abbr: hybrid-hybrid
model_contributors: Kelly Helm Smith (University of Nebraska-Lincoln) ksmith2@unl.edu, Alexander "Sasha" Keyel (NYSDOH) akeyel@albany.edu, Rebecca Smith (University of Illinois) rlsdvm@illinois.edu, Drew Tyre (Bayer) drew.tyre@bayer.com, Nicholas DeFelice (Icahn School of Medicine), nicholas.defelice@mssm.edu, Johnny Uelmen (University of Michigan) uelmen@umich.edu, Philip Armstrong (CAES) philip.armstrong@ct.gov, John Shepard (CAES) john.shepard@ct.gov
website_url: https://github.com/akeyel/WNV-forecast-data-2022
license: cc-by-4.0
team_model_designation: primary
methods: NB base prediction with FLM approach for Great Plains, custom model for Chicago area starting in July, and a Bayesian EAKF for selected locations nationwide starting in July.
ensemble_of_hub_models: false
data_inputs: FLM Forecast uses historical human cases, lagged precipitation, temperature, Standardized Precipitation Index, and Standardized Precipitation and Evapotranspiration Index. Chicago forecast uses historical human cases, historical minimum infection rates for mosquitoes, and present-year temperature and precipitation. EAKF model uses historical and current year mosquito abundance and infection status. 
methods_long: A Negative Binomial (NB) model was fit to every county in the US. Functional Linear Modeling (FLM) was used for Great Plains counties from the following states Nebraska, Kansas, South Dakota, North Dakota, Texas, Oklahoma, Montana, Minnesota, Colorado, Wyoming, Iowa, and New Mexico. The Chicago model used previously published models to first predict minimum infection rates, and then used minimum infection rates to predict human cases. The EAKF was modified from DeFelice et al. 2017 to work with mosquito-only data for counties with at least one positive pool and sufficient data (Nassau and Rockland, New York State; New London, Fairfield, and Hartford, Connecticut). Further research is needed to adjust the weighting. The FLM predictions and the NB were combined into an ensemble, weighted based on differences in historical Continuous Ranked Probability Scores for both models. We did not have time to compute historical performance for the EAKF and Chicago models. The Chicago model was assigned 100% weight and the EAKF 50% in their respective domains. Finally, any quantiles that had fewer predicted human cases than had been reported on ArboNET for the year were adjusted to the minimum known number of human cases for that county.